---
title: First Devlog
date: "2019-09-12"

header:
  caption: ""
  image: ""
---

As my first devlog, I do not have a lot to report on. Only my brainstorming in terms of what I would conceptually like to do in this project. As for the format, I think I would like to do something along the lines of a scavenger hunt where users must solve riddles and puzzles to unlock geo-tagged repositories of historical information in order to discover something about the history of Ottawa. As for the actual content, I think this format would lend itself well to a murder mystery. One possibility is the assassination of Thomas D'Arcy McGee. That subject would allow the user to not only take on the role of investigator but also learn about Ottawa around the time of Confederation.

What I have been mostly been trying to figuring out is how to actually build the game while making it as simple and accessible as possible. I would like for people to walk around downtown Ottawa to the various locations where the geo-tagged repositories of information are hidden but I also want to make sure that everyone can access it.  This makes using the type of geo-tagging that necessitates that the user is in the specific location to access the metadata counter-productive. Instead, I might geo-tag the repositories in such a way as to suggest that the user go to that location but not in a way that they must be within that area to make the information available. As far as I have found in my research, this type of geo-tagging is also the more common type and probably easier to set up.

In terms of challenges this week, I have been having trouble posting onto my github account. If this post is up, then you know that I worked through the issues. Additionally, I am realizing the extent to which I have no idea how to actually build this project as I have very little experience with building websites or coding. I only know that I want to present this project as something that the user can immerse themselves in and slowly discover historical information for themselves.

